The Dark Money documentary is ubiquitously about the role of campaign
finance in shaping public opinion, broadly about the concept of
corporations interfering in elections by way of the loophole in 501(c)4
non-profit corporations to make anonymous tax deductible donations
influence elections and outspend individuals, and specifically about the
American Tradition Partnership, one of such dark money organizations who
used their considerable operating budget and legal team to hand pick
politicians who would let their corporate backers open mines in Montana.

It is simplest to tie the concept of campaign finance into the lecture
material before proceeding to enumerate the acts of WTP ATP and the
hundreds of "civic organizations" which have sprung up in the wake of
the *Citizens United* decision. The Democratic Dilemma highlights the
way that voters use cues and heuristics to inform their decisions, in
lack of a full understanding of every possible problem facing every
aspect of their locality for whom they select elected officials.
Granted, most voters have the wherewithal to sort the information they
receive based on credibility, generally putting information from
Broadcast News, Wikipedia, and your friends without tin foil hats in a
category more reliable than Mailed Pamphlets, totallyrealn3ws.wang, and
the aforementioned "uncle Tin Toque Terry". However, there are three
factors which can cause an otherwise rational person to be swayed by the
tactics favored by the puppet organizations. Caveat, one of the
republican FEC commissioners in the documentary correlated between dark
money groups and republicans, and this is key to understanding the ways
that these factors influence the voter groups. First, as we've seen in
the readers, this documentary, and Boogeyman for good measure,
conservative voters are more responsive to Pathos, outage and fear
tactics. Any negative claim about a candidate will have voters too angry
to fact check; to use a turn of phrase, they see red. Second,
Weaponizing Distrust and "Fault Lines" show the republican tendency to
seek a narrative first, credibility second; discounting news sources
that disagree with their worldview as liberal shills at best or fake
news at worst. This softens them up to receive less credible information
a la Infowars and aluminum adorned acquaintances. Third, quantity is a
quality all its own. A corporation with a million dollars, an industrial
printer, and staff with full time jobs creating printing and disbursing
political advertisements can mail order of magnitudes more leaflets than
a gainfully employed, seated, elected official collecting a maximum of
\$2900 per individual donor per campaign. A PAC or a (c)4 can mail tens
of thousands of weak prints with an inflammatory message and tenuous
connection to reality, and wear down a voter with a full-time job, kids,
hobbies, and no time to research candidates or attend town halls. These
actors can use their immense pocketbooks to supplant the zeitgeist of a
town, county, or congressional district just by putting out so much
paper, radio time, tv ad footage, and billboard square footage that they
cause doubt in just enough voters that they can insert their guy and
make it look like nothing strange happened at all.

This, of course, wouldn't be possible without the legal structure
permitting corporate interests and significantly endowed anonymous
individuals to contribute the million dollars, buy the industrial
printer, or hire the printing team, creative heads, and legal staff. The
documentary does not bog the viewer down with details of the IRS
designation that permits such companies to exist, but only two rules
exist for 501c4s: spend less than 50% on politics, don't retain any
profit. The traditional 501(c)3 is exclusive to charities, but bars said
charities from politics. C4s are organized as "neighborhood watch",
which is nebulous, and does permit printing, advertising, campaigning,
and not being non-partisan. Most importantly, donors are not required to
be named, and there is no contribution limit, allowing 50 cents on the
dollar to funnel into printing the loosely true, anonymously sent,
multitudinous, ubiquitous, inflammatory attack ads; while the
corporation itself maintains the image of being by the people because
you can't prove that it was one entity pouring in a million dollars, not
a million people chipping in a dollar each. Bonus, you can write off the
contribution on your taxes just as though you gave it to United Way, the
Boy Scouts, or The Red Cross. Extra fun that each individual c4 does not
count as a political organization, so a national committee can spend 49%
of their income on national campaign, then send 51% down to state level
orgs to make the "no retained earnings" rule, effectively guaranteeing
donors that every cent contributed fills a partisan printer somewhere;
and further masking the identities of those who would choose the
politicians to fit the policy.

All this sets up the actual actions of American Tradition Partnership,
one such c4 organization dedicated to advocating against pro
environmental policy in mineral rich Montana. They could have done
enough by printing more ads, running more commercials, holding more
rallies, and just doing more than any candidate, and secured positive
results using the methods outlined above. Montana has a strong
anti-corporate culture and sought to use their state's local legislature
to limit ATP's ability to cash blast the citizens. ATP turned their
sights upwards and bought their own representatives by way of in-kind
advertisements, essentially cash. The list of their misconduct is long,
I won't recap the whole movie. If all or even some of the dark money
groups still around today are willing to stoop so low and do so much as
ATP has, this is a bad omen for the idea of governance by and of the
people. Significant evidence exists that this is not the first or the
last time, ATP split from WTP because WTP was mired in a scandal in
Colorado. Dark Money paints a grim portrait for the future of
representative government.
