---
subtitle: Prompt 2
title: Midterm Essay
---

It is reasonable to begin an essay about Ideology by first reintroducing
the concept with a brief explanation of its meaning. An Ideology is not
a belief, but a complete and representative set thereof. Persons have
ideologies, parties have ideologies, interest groups have ideologies,
and some ideologies exist in a vacuum with no living true believers. The
extent to which these beliefs overlap and differ, and how entities are
willing to bend their strictures to be compatible with the incongruous
beliefs of others is the font from which all political conflict flows.
What is fortunate for political actors and unfortunate for the
levelheaded is that core tenets of ideology have high emotional capital
and high stakes, which some believe leads to inherently adversarial
systems, polarization, and intense negative partisanship, along with an
ever-increasing strength and fury in the political arena which cannot be
dialed back.

Every person has a different ideology, garnered through their lived
experiences, enculturation, and study; even being apolitical is an
ideology. This is both a strength and a weakness; a uniform culture
cannot change, a diverse culture in combination with absolute outcomes,
such as binary elections or bills being signed into law, means that for
every possible issue there are winners and losers. When political
leaders recognize that no-one believes exactly what you believe, and
that the actions of persons and the government effect more than just
you, factions emerge quickly, tying together those with marginally
equivalent beliefs to protect the newly formed ingroup from the
outgroup. In the abstract, this begins with two cavemen agreeing to work
together to guard the food pile; but in the context of American
Government, this begins even before the constitution which codifies the
format and structure of our current government was formed, and the
Federalist and Anti-Federalist parties bandied together to form
majorities and win elections. This codification of political factions in
mostly non-violent competition with each other is the basis for
political parties; a legally recognized group entity whose purpose is to
identify, select, and promote candidates for public office. Parties hold
primary elections and run political advertisements, and both activities
have a bidirectional effect on the social sorting of members and
non-members. When a party votes for a candidate, they drag their section
of the Overton window with them, for instance, if Democrats choose a
moderate left of center candidate, they gain moderates and lose left
wing extremists; conversely if a left extremist wins a primary, the
window comes to extremists that think the party is too mild, and
moderates are either left apolitical in the center, allowed to fall into
republican hands, or become encouraged to follow the party to the left.
This third option depresses the center tendency of the political
distribution, leaving fewer centrists, creating extremists, and pulling
moderates further to the wing. This process is called political
polarization, which has a compounding effect. If the Republican window
moves right, more right-wing extremists join the party, vote extreme,
and drag the party center and the moderates to the right.

Taking a moment to review social sorting and negative partisanship, we
read in the very first reader in the Robbers Cave experiment that the
slightest perceived difference between otherwise identical groups
creates tension, anger, vitriol, hatred, stigma, violence. How much
faster can the groups split from each other if rather than a difference
so small as Eagles vs Rattlers, the voter on the other side of the aisle
wants to make normal something you find to be an affront to human
decency, if they attack your fundamental rights and dignity as a person,
if they want you deported, if they wanted you do things that go against
the very core of your being, your ideology, and your people? You might
get mad, you might stop talking to people who don't believe what you
believe, you might vote for someone who doesn't support all or even half
of what you do, just because the outsiders don't like them.

Taking a step back, why is it even important for a faction to have a
party? Can't a candidate simply list their positions, and allow voters
to choose the one which appeals the most to them? Yes and No. The IDs of
the democratic dilemma and the paradox of voting, factions, and the
nature of civilization stems from this simple truth: "You cannot do it
by yourself." The Democratic dilemma, can you vote if you don't know
what's best for all three hundred million Americans? No, you cannot do
it by yourself. You use cues and heuristics, you hear from people, you
make or accept guidelines, you generalize, and this gives you not a
complete picture, but enough that you can cast a vote. Would you like
your local government to take your side on an issue you really believe
in, can you convince your State Senator to clean lake State Founders
Name? You cannot do it by yourself. You join or start and interest
group, and lobby to convince Senator Doe. If he won't yield, maybe you
join a political party which aims to replace him with someone more
ecologically minded. Could they do it without you? Perhaps, but the
interest group relies on you or people like you, and if the generalized
you of every member of the club all simultaneously calls in sick, the
work will not be done. Hence the paradox of voting, "You Cannot do it by
yourself" and "They can't do it without You" and "They can do it without
*you*", are all statements that apply together, despite the apparent
contradiction. Strategically, an interest group depends on You, even if
it doesn't depend on *you*, and tactically it must motivate *you*, and
the action of motivating a member to do something rather than nothing is
Mobilization. Pit their fears against them with negative partisanship,
give them a sense of belonging and involve them in your outside lobbying
campaign, and appeal to ideology to get your citizen to participate and
come to the polls. Furthermore, strategists can sate the voter's hunger
by offering selective benefits, most commonly in interest groups. Dues
paying members can get group insurance rates, like with AARP. And with
any good provided by a faction, you can point at the other guys and say,
"they want to take \<selective good\> away from you."

What happens when your political beliefs are challenged? Are you close
personal friends with someone who does not have your exact ideology? Of
course, every person's ideology is different. Are you part of a
political party whose fringe values alienate your fringe values? To
create a compromise that unites voters on the central tenets, fringes
cannot be identical for everyone, everyone's ideology is different. Has
a politician on your side done something you find distasteful? As a
person with an opinion, you have essentially three options when faced
with something challenging. The easiest and most often thing is to
simply ignore it, selective perception. You can be friends and have
differences. So, what if your Religion and your Political party have
different opinions on what kind of behaviors are acceptable? Maybe your
politician voted against a piece of legislation you liked, but he did
vote for the piece that's more important to you, so it's not all bad.
You move on with your life, and don't change. So, what if your favorite
political candidate has been involved with a sex scandal and later was
impeached. So, what if the United Nations has declared the actions of
your government "gross breaches of human rights"?\
The alternative to apathy is change, either challenge their political
belief to make them more like you, or you can change something about
your ideology to be more compromising. These are cross cutting
cleavages, this is contact theory, and it reduces net polarization in
the system, with an acid and a base neutralizing. The worst and most
concerning option, and one being taken up by more and people, is to make
ideological identity above your connection to your groups and your
friends. You dump everyone you know, change Gods, shave your head, and
move into a compound of likeminded extremists. I know this essay is
meant to be neutral, so I will give the same advice whether you're
considering an Amish settlement, a communist farm co-op, a Benedictine
monastery, or a doomsday prepper's bomb shelter. My advice is "I
wouldn't do that if I were you."

The broad picture of these combined factors is that politics, to be
effective, must be motivating, expansive, and encompassing. You cannot
hide from politics[^1], and it cannot live without your time and
treasure. The encroachment of politics into your life makes it
abundantly clear that doing something is your prerogative, a fire lit
under you, and political actors can use that energy to guide you into
doing their bidding, like participating in outside lobbying and
petitions, or funnel you into a polling booth. The actors themselves are
chosen indirectly by our decisions as participants, candidates who don't
move with the flow are discarded, and they choose new staffers for
operatives. This symbiosis permeates the whole of society, and on every
cycle, politics becomes bigger and more present. As we've discussed, the
action of politics is the reactions of diverse ideologies interacting
when power is on the line, therefore ideological conflict, too, expands
exponentially over time, filling every crevice of your free time.

[^1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYhVBSuJgS8
