Over Encumbered

Approval ratings for all elected federal offices reached historic lows
across the last decade, as low as 9% for Congress in 2014 (Metz Lecture
10); but challengers have a snowball's chance in hell at replacing a
seated official. This is a disconnect, that the will of the people does
not seem to affect the selection of leaders, and this represents a
departure from the republic. The cause of this departure can be more
fully understood by examining the legal framework of the election
process, campaign finance, and voter psychology.

"States Make Election Laws." (Metz, at least once a week). It is of
import to note that as written by the framers, and implied by the name,
The States not the people participate in Federal Government. States
create laws for counting their own votes, dividing congressional
districts, States send representatives and senators to congress, states
vote for the President. The Federal level is peculiar in that it does
not create its own election laws. Nevada made its own laws for electing
State Senators, Governor, et al., but in turn influences how the Federal
counterparts of those offices are chosen. Thusly, many of the
idiosyncrasies of selecting the nations leaders are the responsibility
of each of the fifty states; but the factors of Homestyle,
Gerrymandering, and the role of interest groups are not unique, and will
be explained in their own clause as the general conditions of elections.
As usual with the fractal nature of our government's structure, the
cases which we examine in class, readers, and herein pertain most to
federal offices, but parallels exist at state, local, town, and
neighborhood levels.

Congress has an interesting relationship with duty. We choose them not
to benefit ourselves directly, but to choose on behalf of our state
something that is best for all fifty, including a possibly difficult
decision to do something that is morally correct but benefits every
state except California; but this is not how a voter chooses. We have
seen from the paradox of voting that the goal of individual
participation in the selection of government is the opportunity to reap
a collective good. Therefore, congresspeople must be careful in whether
they vote on policies to benefit their constituents, their party, the
nation, their corporate backers, or their own ideals as morally
upstanding citizens; all while using the media budget to maintain a
public image favorable to the average resident of District 4, the
partisan leaders, the news, Big Corn, and their God.[^1] However, not
the news, nor Big Corn, nor God, nor the partisan leaders can vote for
their seat, so much effort must be made to persuade the average
constituent that they have aligned interests. This persuasion comes in
subtle aids to the voter's limited information, in order to supplant and
supplement their own cues and heuristics, and a little goes a long way.
Seated officials have franking privilege, allowing them to mail campaign
letters for free to their constituents, only needing to pay for the
content of the ad itself. This can be further aided by further external
financial assistance, such as donations from persons[^2], or party
affiliates. An incumbent can lend credence to their advertisement by
stapling in an excerpt from their voting record which gives the
perception of benefitting the target voter, even if the policies in
question did not pass or did not affect the constituents both tangibly
and positively. Perception is everything in politics, and an incumbent
needs only create the impression of homestyle, or at worst an illusion
of representation.

A challenger's struggle is as difficult as the incumbent's is easy for
the inverses of all of those reasons. The weight of the political
machine is astronomical, and the momentum is gargantuan. If you are of
the same party as a bad incumbent, the rolling stone of momentum crushes
you easily in a primary, as you must differentiate yourself from the
reigning champion without alienating his voters, while competing with
his well-oiled ad machine, and no free right to distribute. Harder still
to unseat in a general from the opposing party; "the most important cue
is the little R or D next to their name on the poll". If you are
challenging a bad blue incumbent as a red, you have the double task of
overcoming a blue majority and not being too compromising for staunch
reds, all whilst lacking institutional support. Not to mention that if
you are not already a career politician, you have to have to vacation
hours or savings to call out of work to go campaigning, surely some
brilliant and incorruptible political minds somewhere out in the boonies
are too busy repairing tractors to get on a stage, go to town hall
meetings, put up flyers, and shake hands.

The House of Representatives has an interesting value proposition for
those seeking power. In exchange for shorter term lengths and diluted
political power, receive less close scrutiny and the ability to choose
your constituents. State borders are constant, but congressional
districts are a moving target, and you always only need to represent
720000. A shrewd player of the game, having obtained a seat the hard
way, can retain it by choosing policies suitable to party and lobby,
then influence a partisan districting committee to circle an area with
the demographics you like, and then every vote you make results in
positive homestyle points. Contrast this with the Senate, whose lines
are defined by the borders of the states. Senators are bound to serve
every citizen therein; but they are somewhat more shielded from public
opinion by longer terms.

The Presidency is a different beast altogether. The race is the most
televised, most funded, and most talked about election of the country,
and with good reason; obviously, the president is only One. The head of
state appoints and gives authority to all civil servants, directly or
indirectly. Their role is sevenfold, and the burden of public opinion is
onerous and inescapable. However, despite this, they are not chosen by
the people, but the Public, meaning the states. Citizens make known a
preference, but Arkansas votes for the president, and the unit rule
weight of each state effects a presidential candidate's tactics. The
Incumbent's home is every place, but a strategist would assume it
beneficial to pass policies that positively benefit the swing states,
create the impression of influence in Ohio and Florida, damning
California. Moreover, they must not appear to be weak and influenced by
the public opinion which places them in their office. This brings us to
Conditional Pandering, and small r republic. The president, as we have
seen in the examples, must do policy leadership, give America the bitter
medicine, and pass unpopular policies that positively affect the
country, and veto the sweet and unhealthy. The simple perception of
influence is not sufficient for the highest office in the country, only
true positive influence is acceptable to secure the re-election.
Ultimately, the President can only be re-elected once, and clearing
re-election allows the president four years to do as he pleases, no
longer beholden to media pressure, and the permanent campaign of
Congress. It is best to show the front of wisdom and power continuously.

To synthesize a point prior alluded to, interest groups are the missing
link between purposes and politicians. A citizen has a grab bag of
opinions and dogmas in their ideology, a party has an agenda and
manifesto, a politician has the pressures of party and people, but only
an interest group has a specific, marketable, achievable, relevant,
timely goal. Obtain Corn Subsidy. Reduce pollution in Lake Lago to under
one part per million in two years. They lobby legislators, give gifts,
depending on whether or not there is a dark money organization involved,
they may buy a legislator outright, legislators pass laws, and the
executive branch enforces the law, and the lake gets filtered. It
needn't be said that millions of dollars of membership dues, political
advertisements in kind, cash contributions to campaign funds, and
salaries fly around between all sides of the triangle, and the system
has homeostasis, it resists change. A sufficiently moneyed interest
group can print attack ads to encourage the replacement of a legislator
who fails to hold up their end of the bargain, or bully into submission
a challenger. A bureaucracy with poor funding from legislation could
fail to enforce a rule which negatively impacts an interest group, and a
well-supported bureaucracy can penalize to pieces a bad interest group.
The size of forces at play make entry into the space difficult and
dangerous.

Being liked in office and being re-elected are not the same. Unpopular
Congresspeople stay in, and can rely on their assets and power to keep
it so. Presidents who chase popularity instead of passing unpopular
healthy policy fail to be re-elected. Likeable outsiders cannot muscle
into the space without making enemies of Big Corn. Districts can be
split so being loved by half of a city gives one third of the power.
Power is resistant to change, and actively hostile to changing hands.

[^1]: Except for the one confirmed atheist senator among 537 (Lecture 8)

[^2]: Flesh and Blood persons or corporate persons (*Citizens United*)
