Political Polarization is intrinsically and inexorably linked to
Mobilization, due, by parts, to the adversarial nature of political
power, the mechanics of campaign and action, and the tendencies of
humans. Political actors hoping to rally support for themselves can rely
on negative partisanship, the observed tendency to "us vs them"
violence, and the ability to substitute in their own cues and heuristics
not only to those they speak to, but any who hear of the event. Any
stoking of political fervor serves to fan the flames of polarization and
increase distrust of the other party and their supporters, steeling
one's own support base against the whittling effect of cross cutting
cleavages. Every aspect of the American political machine serves to push
each person deeply into the pockets of their party, interest group, and
echo chamber. The motivated are the extreme, the neutral are apathetic
or ignorant.

Firstly, examine in the broadest sense the concept of political
polarization and the form it takes. We have covered at length in class
the Robber's Cave study. Briefly, any possible division instantly
creates in both "teams" the idea of an us vs them dynamic, distilled
with the passage of time and any competitive events, causing further
separation, and increasing dislike of one another. Cross cutting
cleavages heal these separations, to have an outside connection with a
differing view to your own, but the inverse is true if one perceives to
other side committing some sort of wrongdoing. In the Robber's Cave
State Park study, such as cheating or burning the team flag. (Reader,
Unit One, PDF 5) In the detailed sense as it pertains to politics, this
can include political scandals such as Watergate, or the actual burning
of the country flag. (Kruse and Zelizer 7) The unfortunate reality of
such scandals in politics is that, unlike the boys in the park, is that
the decisions that politicians make are literally life or death. More
in-depth tabulation to come of party ideology and policy, but how much
can you be expected to reach across the aisle and shake hands with a
troupe of racist sexist homophobes who want to kill all poor people, or
a gaggle of baby killing terrorist communists? So long as there is only
one president, and congress can only create or not create a legislation,
there is only vision for the future; and if your opponent's backward
ideology is incompatible with yours, you cannot allow them power. You
must "Win" (Reader, Unit One, PDF 6)

Many are the ways that a politician or political actor can wield,
express, and project authority once they into power, but power can only
be gained by winning an election; bureaucrats, lobbyists, and
professional strategists excepted. To win the election, you must win
many individuals. Convince your existing voter base to stay with your
party and vote again, convince neutrals to come to your side, convince
opposing voters that there is no hope for them, and they should stay
home on Tuesday. Much then is to be said for the usefulness of a small r
republic in solving the democratic dilemma. Your voter doesn't need to
know much, only that they can trust you and that you know best. Except
when voting for a referendum, the voter needs only to know the partisan
alignment of the matching politician, usually a schooled and seasoned
statesman; the R or D being the primary cue for a big decision. It is
then therefore interestingly paradoxical the relationship that Big R
Republicans have with the concept of trust in general. Every chapter of
Fault Lines begins with a Republican's scandal eroding the voter's faith
in the government, but then a different republican runs on the platform
that you can't trust the government, but you can trust me. This in turn
creates a wave of red registered pro government voters who claim to hate
the government, the very same that they caused. Weaponizing Distrust,
from Reader two, shows off the way that partisans benefit from negative
media coverage. You can always blame the bad on their guy, and garner
support for yourselves. If the Democratic dilemma is getting people to
vote even if they are guaranteed the collective benefit, simply showing
a collective anti-benefit such as rising fuel price, and falling stock
prices guarantees that you will motivate a voter. Readers from other
units demonstrate ways that lobbyists can motivate a voter, such as with
social media, but I would be repeating myself. Convince the voter that
your guy is good, the other guy is bad, and that you need the voter's
help to win and keep the other guy out. Negative partisanship defines
the sixth party system. Branching into positive partisanship, the social
aspect of mobilization shows itself as a mirror to the cross-cutting
cleavage. Unit 3 Reader page 5 shows a way that social media can make a
politician, interest group, or a cause show itself as a friend to an
individual. (Unit 3 Reader, PDF 5) If Cross cutting cleavages are a
friend having differing political views making you less partisan by
contact, social media mobilization uses the mask of friendship to change
your political views and make you more partisan. "Democrats want
Democrats to Vote" (Unit 3, PDF 7), and so it goes until everyone toes
the party line. With consistent repeating of the party message,
propagation of propaganda, and encouraging voters to cut out toxic
family members to be with your own political tribe, you can effectively
get people to make their partisan identity their entire identity.

Long have I made essays avoiding any of the substance of addressing what
any party believes in or claims to believe in, beyond that they should
govern. I shall endeavor to do my best to define where the party line is
for their members to follow. List of GOP positions I found evidence for
in assigned readings: Tax cuts and deregulation (Kruse and Zelizer 293),
distrust of Welfare State (Reader Unit 2, PDF 13), Religion (Kruse and
Zelizer 88), anti LGBT anti feminism (Kruse and Zelizer 88). List of
Democratic beliefs I found evidence for in assigned readings: labor
protections and welfare measures (Kruse and Zelizer 114), LGBT rights
(Kruse and Zelizer 82). Due to the high emotional capital of such
topics, I do not feel qualified to give any value or comparison
statements, only that those views are important to the people that hold
them, and that one may begin to distrust close friends who believe
differently because of how important those beliefs are. You could lose,
or refuse to make, friendship with someone who believes in taking away
something that kept you alive. These parties beliefs are not compatible
with one another. In fact, they are mostly opposites, especially as now
in most recent history, co-operation and compromise is seen as a
weakness. Take for instance, abortion, the topic with the highest
possible emotional capital. There can be no compromise, either you are
in support of an industry that kills babies, or you believe that you
should have the say over the reproductive rights of an entire gender.
You cannot deal with that using logic and reason and pathos, and there
can be no acceptable compromise. The only acceptable outcome to either
party is complete and total victory. Complete 50 state ban of abortion
from day one, or 100% legal until the ink on the birth certificate is
dry with zero outside influence or interference. Anything else is
defeat. If your party has the virtue to receive the confidence of a
voter, it would stands to reason that all your stances are virtuous and
that your opponents' stances are reprehensible. In this way, the voting
structure of the legislature, and the public record of which senators
and representatives vote for which policies, serves to cause both
parties to seek to destroy the middle ground, not shake-hands on things
which will benefit all Americans.

We have a recent example of someone trying to dismantle partisanship
from the highest echelon. Obama is an outlier in his desire to have
bipartisan support. He uniquely was able to find reasonable policies
that appealed to the hearts of rightists and leftists, and use his
overwhelming mandate to encourage his policies and nose up out of the
recession, emphasizing that the point is to benefit Americans. (Kruse
and Zelizer 294) He tried to be post-partisan, and made every effort to
include republicans in his plans and cabinet. (Kruse and Zelizer 295).
Unfortunately, for Obama and all non-partisans, this only served to
increase partisanship. Liberals didn't like that Obama was willing to
compromise with the likes of the Republicans. Republicans wanted to
fight him for being a blue, and refused to co-operate. (Kruse and
Zelizer 297).

You cannot beat partisanship. If at any time your opponent has some kind
of advantage, it could never be luck, skill, or simply that you're wrong
about your belief and could learn something. They cheated, they lied,
the stole it, anything to save face and try to supplant one another. To
quote one of my favorite characters, Sarge, "\[But\] have you ever
considered that fighting is just in our nature? It\'s almost
instinctual. If we\'re not constantly trying to stab each other in the
back\... we\'ll surely die." (Roosterteeth, 2015[^1]) As long as there
is anyone with even a slight difference in ideology from oneself,
conflict will ensue, and the cycle of partisanship will begin anew. So
long as government can only enforce one vision, the world will not be
wide enough. The source of polarization is that your ideology is not
100% the same as anyone else's. The source of mobilization is the fear
of everyone else, and need to benefit oneself. A mobilized citizen is an
extremist.

[^1]: Rooster Teeth Productions LLC. \[Rooster Teeth Animation\]. (2015,
    Mar 28). Season 11, Episode 1 - One-Zero-One \| Red vs. Blue
    \[Video\]. Youtube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nv31PWKNQZ8
