Aged Out

I stand on the creaky stage, with carpet like an eighties library, and
take a glance at the semi-circle, we wrongly called it a half horseshoe,
of boys in their slightly mismatched uniforms. Differently colored
undershirts, some in jackets, some in the microfiber sets, some in
canvas, and various arrays of patches and epaulets distributed across my
friends with no discernible pattern. I turned eighteen on Saturday; my
brother Andy was promoted from third officer to second to take my place.
I stand behind him and Luisito, while they scan the scouts and take care
of any last second tasks, as usual. I look at Scoutmaster Tim by the big
double doors at the entrance to the multipurpose room; and he gives a
curt nod, confirming that no late arrivals are running down the corridor
quite yet.

I poke my brother, disrupting his short conversation with Luisito, the
Senior Patrol Leader.

"Whenever you're ready, Andy."

"Audience Attention! Scouts, Attention! Audience, please rise. Color
guard Attention! Color guard forward March! Scout Salute!"

Andy barks the orders with the ease of long practice; Logan and Gabe
walk with measured paces from the right of the sound booth with the
American flag, reflexively remembering to dip it to keep the shiny
silver eagle ornament from bumping the overhanging ceiling beam again,
where an indentation is worn from years of not remembering to do so.
From the right, making slight course corrections to avoid furnishings
and people, and casting sidelong glances every couple paces to match
speed with the American flag team, Phillip carries the red and white
Troop 34 flag; it is easily twice his height.

"Color guard Halt! Color guard, please cross the colors."

At slow pace, the color guards take eight steps to cross from one flag
stand to the other, and subconsciously I count *one two three four five
six seven eight*.

"Please post the troop flag"

*Thunk.*

"Please post the American flag"

*Bunk.*

"Audience, hand salute and join me in the pledge of allegiance"

Between the relative warmth of the community center basement, the
weariness of another Wednesday's slog of math homework, and the droning
of the pledge, it is all I can do to stifle a yawn.

"Audience may be seated. Scout signs! Recite the Scout Law. A Scout is
Trustworthy..."

My brain wanders off as I match my brother's pace and recite the
long-memorized litany.

"To! Color guard Dismissed"

At once, a dozen hands come down; at twice, the half dozen remaining
hands come down.

"Three!" quips a voice, to few chuckles.

Before the momentum is lost, I take a few steps forward, watching my
step not to step on the slightly discolored sections of pearled up
carpet which indicated the particularly creaky of the floorboards, and
announce "Okay boys, today, we're gonna go over knife safety, and you'll
get to keep the practice pocketknives if you pass."

I drop an arm across Liam's shoulder, a familiar gesture to us or any of
us friends in my troop, and begin to say "I remember when Liam took this
class and he- "

"JOSEPH!" thunders scoutmaster Tim. "Come here."

Reflexively I snap to attention, feel my guts twist and my throat drop
into my stomach. I turn in place, face the door, and walk quickly
towards Mr. Tim

"What did I do sir? Did I say a bad word again?"

Mr. Holmes turns me away from the others, and we stand in the corner
near the entrance to the parents committee room.\
"Mr. Simone, I know you took the Youth Protection class last week, so I
expect better of you, but I don't think you've really realized what that
means"

My stomach churned. "What is it sir?"

"You touched Liam." My cheeks get hot.\
"It was just on the shoulder, and we're friends"\
"I know, but you're an adult now, he's still a minor, he's sixteen. You
can't touch him. Technically, the rules say you can't even text him
without it being a group chat with another registered adult in the
troop"

My eyes blur, and I feel myself choke.

"Wait, I can't hang out with any of my boys?"\
"Yes. You can only hang out with the ones who've aged out of the
program. It sucks, but it's about keeping the kids safe. They're not
your guys anymore, you're responsible to them now. Especially with
what's going on, I can't give you any leniency."\
My breath starts to quicken, I try to say, "I hate this." but it comes
out as a sob.

The air in the room is perfectly still, no breeze of a fan to cool the
fire in my cheeks. Between my heartbeats I hear the faint whir of the
fans of the Wi-Fi router I taped to the bottom of the table at the snack
corner and smell the acidity of Ethan's bag of Takis from the vending
machine, and my vision gets blurry.

"Now. Are you okay?" He asks, faintly.

"Yes sir"\
"One more thing, you need to use the scoutmaster uniform standards. Rank
Patch, patrol patch, eagle pin and neckerchief, and your marksman pin
all have to go. Adults wear these knots" He gestures at his chest, where
six such insignia are sewn. "Get that taken care of by next week, okay?"

I say nothing, turn around, and walk slowly across the room, past the
still gathered half circle of waiting boys, the assembled ring of
folding tables arranged by patrol, the couches, and the church band's
rarely used spare amplifiers, and out of the one way plain brown door
that leads to the exterior stairs. I sit on the stairs, red light from
the exit shine dimly illuminating my neon yellow class b uniform t shirt
when I carefully remove my khaki microfiber uniform shirt, the same I'd
had for five years, twenty campouts, and hundreds of troop meetings. I
reach into the breast pocket, take one of the Troop 34 knives we
distribute every year for knife safety meeting. I fastidiously remove
the pins from their backings and use the knife to cut the threads behind
my patches, enough to reach behind them with a finger, and pulled. I had
become an assistant scoutmaster so I could stay connected to my friends,
my identity, and scouting culture; but to obey the rules, I must sever
the thread. Some small strands of string, my honors, and spare pocket
lint form a small pile at my knees. Salty tears roll down my cheeks and
into mouth as I quietly strip my uniform to bare cloth. Ad Altar Dei,
Phoenix Patrol, Summit Bechtel Inaugural Jamboree council patch, den
leader, troop guide, librarian, camp staff, Order of The Arrow
Centennial patch, arrow of light, National Youth Leadership Training
patch, OA Nebagamon council flap, and Eagle Scout. The door to the
stairs locks automatically, so I walk up the stairs and out the rear
door to the truck loading area. The cool February air is insufficient to
cool the glowing embers of grief in my hearth. The boy I was is dead. I
return to the meeting room, chest adorned by lightened ovals and
rectangles not sun stained to the same color as the surrounding cloth,
orphaned pokes of thread, and the darkened drips of tears.
