Call him "Joey". Some years ago, 4 years precisely, with little money in
his purse and nothing to interest him ashore, he applied to the maritime
academy, to sail about a little, and see the watery part of the world.
The wholesome exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck puts him in
the habit of going to sea when he grows hazy about the eyes and aware of
his lungs. Whenever it is a damp and drizzly November in his soul, he
finds himself lingering outside of coffin warehouses, taking up the rear
of funeral processions, and posting suicide memes on twitter, and indeed
when his hypos get such an upper hand over him that it requires a strong
moral fortitude not to pick fights with every stranger, he accounts it
high time to get back to see as fast as he can. This excites him more
than marksmanship or sport, although like pistol and ball, it may lead
to his death at sea. "I quietly take to the ship" he mutters, promising
silently to be ordered about some, even if it touches upon his sense of
honor, coming from an established family. He was, previous to putting
his hand to the tar pot, a scoutmaster, lording it over the tallest
boys, and a religious education teacher. This keen transition requires a
strong concoction of piety, stoicism, and bumbo to grin and bear it,
though these too fade. So, what if he is thumped about, a broom pushed
into his hand and ordered to sweep decks, chip paint, or examine
firestations? He goes to sea not as a captain or chief mate, he
abominates all honorable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of
every kind whatsoever. He abandons the glory and distinction of those
offices to those who like them, they are far too heavy for his back. As
far as going cook, he has fancied broiling fowls, judiciously salted
peppered and buttered, his friends have implored him to open his own
restaurant ashore, and to seek the glory of a chef, but this too is
heavy a weight, to be the captain of the kitchen, chef de cuisine, and
to see that such a venture shan't sink into the inky black darkness of
debt. He abhors to be paid for food, as such a thing would surely
consign him to perdition, to seek remuneration for the most basic of
kindness and hospitality. The urbane activity with which a man receives
money is really marvelous, considering that we so earnestly believe
money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account can a
monied man enter heaven. He tries all things, he achieves what he can.

He is a man unaccustomed to iniquity, a stranger to difficulty. He has
not had to worry where to lay down to rest. Like the harpooners, Joey
dines like a lord, filling his belly like an Indian ship loading with
spices, and chewing with such a relish that there is a report. Ishmael
sounds his pockets with anxious grapnels and finds nothing. Why then
choose Ishmael for his avatar, the last orphan of the Pequod? Why does
one step forth? His transfixion to the passage "Loomings" hold such a
place that this should be the microscope by which we see the specimen
and categorize him by folio? It is representative of his connection to
the stage, "Loomings" is a soliloquy he has memorized and oft delivered,
Joey is no stranger of the stage, and Ishmael is the narrator and
separate character in his novel; so too do I feel a disconnect between
myself the writer and myself the sailor. We hold each other in place
with the monkey rope as we cut the whale's hide and have it tried. It is
representative of his connection to the sea, if they but knew it, almost
all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the
same feelings towards the ocean with me. I chose Moby Dick because I
have a connection with antiquity, a love of tradition, sea shanties, and
the age of sail. Wooden Ships and Iron Men. Ishmael is friends to few
men and so am I. Half of Moby Dick is longwinded tangents not relating
to the subject matter at hand, with frequent perspective changes, and
the narrator referring to himself in the third or first person
interchangeably. That fits me like a pintel and a gudgeon. There is no
more, and deep memories yield no epitaphs. The drama is over.
