Event Essay

The Smith Center theater had waited two years for this. Excited patrons
waltzed through the metal detectors and scanned their tickets under the
watchful eye of the angel statue, hung from the mezzanine banister. One
year with no shows at all, and one more with limited seating,
prohibiting food and drink, and a dearth of socialization in the
glamorous halls of polished quartz, handcrafted furniture, and vaulted
ceilings. At 2 concessions stands each on 2 levels, bartenders dispensed
candies and cocktails with a vim and vigor not forgotten due to the long
hiatus.

"Yeah, and with the theater cups, you can drink inside." she says
cheerfully while dropping ice into a cocktail shaker"

"Oh man, if I'd known you were letting theater cups back in, I'd've
brought mine from home" a man says, while quickly taking out a few bills
to pay for his jack and coke and a pack of M&M's.

"They only changed it last week, I don't blame you. Fifteen please." she
says reflexively, and the house lights flash to indicate the 10-minute
warning.

Meanwhile, in the back of the house, the cast and crew put the last
spots of polish onto the props, instruments, and prop instruments.

The last of the patrons are ushered to their seats, and faintly, a
clarinet begins to riff. Murmurs reverberate throughout the crowd.

The house lights flash once more, conversations end, the lights dim, a
curtain lowers, and a projector displays plain white text on the black
background, with light powerful enough to make out the shapes of the
letters in their beams without looking at the image on the curtain.

"Once, not long ago, a group of musicians came to Israel from Egypt. You
probably didn't hear about it. I wasn\'t very important"

A classical guitar begins to riff, a derbakeh drum beats out a driving
rhythm, a violin begins to dance, and a flute joins; completing the
middle eastern stereotypical orchestral sound. The overture includes
small riffs from songs later in the set, and abruptly ends, leaving the
stage suddenly occupied by men in Sargeant Pepper suits lined up at
attention to set the scene for the play.

*The Band's Visit* is about stasis, and the hear exhausted feeling of
being stuck in place in the Negevt desert, and this is emphasized in the
music and the direction. At all times, few characters are moving, and in
songs such as 'Waiting', characters are so exhausted and bored that they
don't move a muscle. The surprise arrival of the lost band of Egyptian
musicians is the only thing that can create some entropy in Bet Hatikva.
"Telephone Guy" stands perfectly still in front of the payphone, waiting
for his girlfriend to call, Dina is stuck in her routine, Itzik is
permanently between jobs, Papi is frozen in fear of speaking to women.

Movement and life enter with music; characters begin to dance and emote
only when in songs about love and rhythm, which are inseparable. Music
breaks down Dina's sarcastic cynicism when she falls for Tewfiq.

When the play ends, every character is set back into their lives, and
ceases to progress. No lasting change comes to Bet Hatikva. The
stagehands clean the theater, and the polished quartz halls wait again
for the next show.
