EGL 310

**Instead of Class: Hemingway's "After the Storm"**

**Due in Brightspace Wednesday 11/9. You can write your responses into
this document and upload in Assignments**

This short assignment asks you to read the Hemingway short story "After
the Storm" distributed in class on Monday 11/7 (also in Week 11 module).
The questions are about making connections between the story and
Modernism (Monday 11/7), as well as making connections between the
narrator and characters we've encountered in our other readings.

If you need information on Modernism, please consult slides 7-15 in the
Literary History presentation in the Week 11 module.

1.  In what ways does this story exemplify stylistic and thematic
    elements of Modernism (such as alienation, fragmentation, stream of
    consciousness, or experimentation)?

The narrator's style has an unpolishedness which is readily apparent.
His story begins in the middle of a bar fight, to which he admits he
doesn't remember how it happened, and tells us the uninterrupted story
of how he tried to get some salvage off of a liner (cruise ship) which
foundered with all souls. He is clearly not a member of the community
except for his friends which testify that he wasn't at fault for the bar
fight. His solo struggle to break a pane glass window paints a picture
of him being far from his companions in the physical and the
metaphysical senses.

2.  How does the narrator of this story compare to other characters at
    sea we've read about so far? How is he like or unlike Ishmael, Ahab,
    the four rowers in the "The Open Boat," the fish patrol fellows in
    "Tales of the Fish Patrol"? You don't have to write about all of
    them! You can pick one or two. The point is to identify any
    differences or continuities between some of our readings.

I'll compare him to Ishmael. Narrator seems much more confident than
Ishmael in the handling of his own boat, but they share a similarity of
how they are semi-solitary creatures, and both end up floating over a
wrecked ship with nothing to show for it. Ishmael is a very placeless
man, but he strives to situate himself among the people of whalers in
his stories, including that he counts Hercules as a whaler as well as
Jonah, in so implying that he is shoulder to shoulder with men of Gods
and Myths. Ernest seems quite rooted in the Caribbean, with the
landmarks and seafloor committed to memory, but he is peopleless.
