Regionalism Essay, Joey Simone, Sunset Park in Las Vegas

Every time I go home, I make it a point to set aside the time to walk my
dog, Angua, at Sunset Park, so named for Sunset Road, to which it is
attached. It has been a fixture in my life for a decade and a half, and
I tell most tourists I happen to bump into that they should try to see
the park before they leave town. Although, I do doubt that they can tear
themselves away from the glitz and the glamour of the strip to spend 3
hours of their limited vacation time at my quiet and nostalgic
artificial oasis 4 miles away from the strip.

I always park in the lot by the Park Police building, near the north
edge, as the park is big enough to get a little lost in if you tend to
aimlessly wander while listening to audiobooks. Angua and I hop out of
the car and start walking towards the 'lake.' Although the actual
distance from the lot to the lake is short, we take our time getting
there, and make a meandering path, investigating every shrub and
withered bush. Little snake holes pock the hard packed dirt by the
trees, and she will often pounce at them, sticking her muzzle into the
hole in the hope of catching a field mouse or a vole. In the shade of
trees along the main paths lay an assortment of little setups:
picnickers on blankets with bottles of wine, tents which may belong to a
homeless man or a well-to-do glamper, and piles of the loosely stacked
belongings of teenagers or families come to play with a frisbee if it's
daytime. As we approach the rim of the manmade pond, Angua always looks
out for large flocks of geese she can spook into the water. She does her
best to tread quietly, lower her center of gravity, and walk behind them
in an arc, but as she is an 80 pound malamute with coloration like a
German Shepherd, she tends to stand out from the background of green
trees and grass. When she does leap, I pull back the leash to make sure
she doesn't actually catch one, although I'm sure that she couldn't
actually manage to pin one if she wanted to. If we happen to be at the
model boat launch ramp, she might even wade out a couple yards into the
shallow water, if I'm not careful. I'm sure it helps to cool her down,
but it makes my car smell absolutely dreadful if I'm not sure that she's
all dry before the walk ends. We make a little circuit around the pond;
there are pavilions every hundred feet or so, and no fewer than half of
them at any time of day are the venue for a cookout or birthday party.
Beer cans, tacos, and mylar balloons are ubiquitous. Under other
pavilions, people sleep fully clothed on the tables. By some consequence
of meteorology, the park is always a comfortable temperature, warm at
night, cool in the day, tolerable in the summer, snug in the winter. Old
men and young boys snooze in lawn chairs, hats pulled down low over
their eyes, gripping fishing poles between their knees waiting for the
stocked fish to bite. We pull away from the pond on the other side and
stroll west along a grove of trees behind the baseball diamonds. There
is a little gully we stalk our way through, where the grass is less
uniformly cut; she will often catch sight or smell of a rabbit, and if I
weren't quick to brace her leash she'd pull my arm out of place. Making
a wide right turn, and going around the northern edge of the baseball
diamonds, we can pass the rows of sand volleyball courts, and the dozens
of skimpily clothed college kids playing there, with coolers of white
claws at the ready. Further down, across a small road and a parking lot,
is the water feature area, where small children and their mothers spend
many blazing hot summer afternoons. Pets are prohibited from being on
the wet part, so we don't often cut through there. We pass pavilions
with rows and rows of tables, pass the field where we held the
renaissance fair, and the hiking trail where I ran my first 5k. We like
to stop at the dog park out by the edge of the park before we turn
around and head back to the car. Angua is civil, but she is ironically
scared of big dogs, despite weighing 80 pounds herself. We'll sit in the
big dog enclosure, and while other owners play fetch with their pooches,
Angua sits on my lap trembling like a leaf.

The park is ringed by streets filled with strip malls. Restaurants, law
offices, and other little services are all just one road away from a
park that seems like it has nothing to do with Las Vegas, despite being
smack dab in the middle of it. We take water, hop back in the car, and
head west up Sunset road, almost a straight line to my house.
