Dr. Senk, I have not practiced the timings. I know you can't play all
the songs within 50 minutes. It may be sufficient to play a little bit
of each one, but my timings would be different from yours anyway.

This script is pasted together from the speaker notes in PowerPoint.

Good afternoon, etc.

This Class focuses much on views of the world held by people not on the
mainlands of colonial powers. We have covered a lot of literature from
the Islands, but you may be familiar with another kind of
non-terrestrial culture, that being the culture of seafarers. Today
we'll talk about the art that mariners make, in particular, the sea
shanty, and its history and mixture with race and colonialism.

The seafarer's life for most of history was to bounce between riches and
ruin ashore, and boredom and hard work at sea. They expressed themselves
in art as many others do, but with a particular flavor indicative of
their lives. They created scrimshaws, to carve designs in the bones of
whales. They tied decorative knots. They marked their time with songs of
the sea in more ways than one.

Many of you already have some conception of the shanty, or sea music in
general, with "What do you do with a Drunken Sailor" being ubiquitously
synonymous with the landsman's view of the maritime world, or maybe some
of you witnessed "The Wellerman" sweeping through TikTok a few years
ago. However, as a subsection of all the music, which was sung at sea,
shanties (sometimes spelled chanteys but always pronounced shanties)
played a specific role in the life of a Merchant Mariner.

\*Discussion slide, engage in wild mass guessing with the students about
what they already know about the sailor's songs. \*

The actual songs and work intertwined in the way described here in the
Smyth reading. The percussive sound of the stamping of feet, the pumping
of bilges, or the click of the capstan each coincide with the hard heavy
beats of the song. Different jobs necessitated different songs with
different tempos and structures.

We'll get more into the ways the songs are written on the next page, but
here are some notes on the work rhythm relationship.

Short drag, one heavy haul all at once at the end of the line on the
strong last beat

Halyard songs, lighter pulling, lifting a yard up, have two pulls and a
break.

Capstan shanties are also sung at the windlass and have an even tempo
that must be kept up for a long time as the men push continuously. 4/4
tempo is usual.

Pumps require an alternating up down stroke, so a 2/4 beat is clearer
like in marching.

Many of the songs that people think of immediately when they think of
sea shanties are not shanties. Songs with changes of tempo, songs with
key changes, songs with multiple part harmony, songs with many
instruments, are usually counted among forebitters. Songs sung off duty
while sitting on the forward bits. The shantyman and band giving a
concert to men who are not working.

(Play the audio)

Here is a very simple song coming from the Irish. It has a very simple
call and response, and it is also appropriate as a short drag. They "to
me way hey ay ay ay yeah!" is like the proteogenic heave-ho that
preceded shanties. Pull on yah! (play one verse of the song)

Double responses are common in shanties. They are easy to teach and easy
to learn, and adaptable to many situations. Exporting a little more of
the lyrics to the crew allows the shantyman to string along a little bit
more\
Play 2 verses.

Play 2 verses.

This song is a polka, and it has a regular verse and chorus like you
might hear in your landsman pop music on your Spotify today. You can
tell that this is not a working song, but a forebitter and a dancing
song. As likely to be sung in a bar as in the forecastle. We are also
getting a little bit more of the common mythos of what Jack Tar goes
through on a somewhat regular basis. Go ashore, tangle with woman, lose
everything, go to sea.

Rio Grande is the picture of a Capstan song, and it even mentions this
work in its own lyrics. The beat is the same the entire way through, it
is an outward bounder, and so the mental picture of a dozen men slowly
winning the anchor chain before heading off to their adventure is so
clear it's palpable. This is both a verse chorus song and a double
response chantey. Someone just learning the song can still do fine with
singing "Away for Rio" and "And we're bound for the Rio Grande," while
the more experienced can jump onto the other two lines of the chorus.\
This facilitates "stringing along." After finishing a verse, the lead
singer gets a long time to think about what he'll sing next.

From singing "Them Judys we're leaving will get out half pay" he has 5
lines to remember that the next verse starts with "Cheer Up Mary Ellen
now Don't look so Glum" and then the sailors sing "Away Rio", and he can
remember the rhyme "on white stocking day you'll be drinking hot rum".
Clever improvisers can write new verses as fast as the chorus is being
sung. I've once avoided repeating myself for 12 minutes.

Play a minute of the song.

It may have looked like this when the band got out their instruments
after Watch. Play a minute.

Stan Hugill was the foremost historian of Sea Shanties, as well as a
sailor himself, a performer, and he completed interdisciplinary studies
as well. He was the genuine article.

These songs are songs of the poor and working class, and not to be a
Marxist or anything, but the interculteration between those in lower
strata is much more permissible and permeable than the cultural barriers
among the rich. Similarities exist between the sea songs we've covered
and will cover that show a link to much of the roots of traditional
African American Music. Here is a Black Gospel song included in an
anthology of sea music. Remember learning about songs like "Hoe, Emma,
Hoe," "Jimmy Crack Corn"\
\
There is even music from your childhood with overlap. "I've been working
on the railroad" was your first pump shanty, and "Row, Row, row your
Boat" was your first capstan shanty.

Obviously, we can't have anything nice in the Atlantic. Hoe Emma Hoe is
the slave song, Blow Boys Blow is the ship song, but this one is a
slaving song about sailing up the Congo River to take people, while also
calling Black people names.

We try not to do that anymore in 2023, it really sours the mood and it's
a dreadful thing to do. You'll find more of the old and inappropriate
words in books, where they are ripe for textual analysis. For concerts,
I change the words.

Stan Hugill documented dozens of shanties in different languages,
showing the penetration of the practice into the merchant fleets of
other countries. Here is a Swedish capstan shanty.

And pidgin languages (working languages amalgamated from multiple
tongues) were common in ships on the pacific, especially when they were
crewed by multiple nationalities of people, not to mention that the
ships must do business with the people of the places they sail to. Here
is a song in Samoa-English Pidgin sung by German ships departing Apia.

It is deeply human to want to sing about your pain and perhaps lessen it
by letting others in on your suffering. Misery and Brutality abound in
the life of the common sailor. On the right is an attempt by one
enthusiast on Tumblr to organize the popular sea shanties with surviving
recordings available on YouTube by theme, and the list goes off the
page. Here we will name some categories and provide examples, but no
list can ever be exhaustive, no matter how many have tried.

Shakespeare said, "Parting is such sweet sorrow."

Outward bounders have mixed feelings about them. I'm leaving my girl
behind, the treatment will be hard, the food might be bad, but I'm gonna
get paid a lot of money, and I'm gonna see some foreign shores.

Sailors get in fights. Blow the Man Down is sometimes about fighting the
husband of the girl you tried to get, sometimes about being ambushed by
the crimps with a lead pipe and being dragged onto a ship.

You may have heard of Maggie May from the Beatles. She is one of many
women who pawns your clothes while you sleep.\
Contrast her with Sally Brown from the readings.

This is a subject that comes up more often than some people might think.
Admittedly, those scallywags were not 100% woke about it. Some AFAB
people would wear man's clothes, take a manly name, and do one of the
world's manliest jobs. Some of the songs about this consider that they
are women underneath the garb, but other writings from the time seem to
indicate that the crew didn't care if Jack had boobs, as long as he
could knot and splice. The book "Before We Were Trans" by Kit Heyam does
include some discussion on how readings of Anne Bonnie and Mary Read as
trans men don't take those people away from the history books of the
Feminist authors who might've used them for certain talking points. The
topic is fascinating and sensitive and we're here to talk about music.

The other direction of shipboard pseudo-transness comes from some
sources of mixed repute of making cabin boys grow their hair out and
wear dresses for the relief of the crew.

There are songs about fireships setting one's standing rigging ablaze
and damaging a seaman's mainmast.

The sailor's life is deeply intertwined with drinking, not only for the
reason that you do it, but because mixing the water with a high enough
proof of rum has an antibacterial effect that prevents the water from
becoming tainted with mold and algae.

Many songs are about the work being done itself.

I swear I'm not a Marxist, but there is something cyclical about the
worker having everything taken from him, so he keeps having to go back
to work despite the hazard to his health both physical and mental.

For all human history before commercial air travel, the only people who
get to know anything about Hawai'i are seafarers. In a way like
tempering captain cook's respect of the Polynesians skill as navigators
with the subsequent conquest; the whaler loves Maui but sees the island
girls as sexual prey. At least Liverpool Girls and Lahaina girls are
equally fair game to Jack Tar

Death, grieving, and an ocean full of bones. The shipwreck sets up the
Robinsonade, the sea is history, and the gray vault is full of men both
black and white. In the page on screen on the left, some of the actions
taken at Old Stormy's funeral occur in African American burial
services.\
Bones in the Ocean is a modern song which has achieved much acclaim.

Contrast Zong against Trafalgar. Slaves were tossed alive into the sea
for want of water. When Admiral Nelson died at the battle of Trafalgar,
instead of throwing his corpse in the sea in his hammock as is usual for
a dead sailor, he was pushed into a barrel of brandy and brought back
home to England for a Christian Burial. This is commemorated in the song
"A Drop of Nelson's Blood," which posits that a sailor who sneaks a sip
from the Admiral's burial might not be harmed or might even become a
better sailor.

Sailors have been singing protest songs as long as the other professions
or more. The mutinies at Spithead and The Norr lead to changes to the
life of a sailor that you yourself still observe, like mirrored watches
4 hours on 8 hours off. The tradition continues in Woody Guthrie
protesting the Vietnam war, in union songs, and all other musical shouts
of the working class. Voice your grievance and leave her, Johnny.

Disaster and Death on the high sea is such a mysterious and compelling
narrative. We have a cultural fascination with the Titanic, but many
songs are sung of wrecks.

The examination of a sailor's perspective of his lot via the songs he
sings is worth doing.
