I think that sea shanties can and should be included in a class about
global literature of the sea. They are a source of Oral Tradition, and
insight into the working class people who may or may not have been able
to read, and the fact that this class focuses so much on Tidalectics, it
is a vast oversight to not spend much time talking about the cultures of
the people on the ships and how they behave on board. The sections we
have seen of Roots and Routes focus on Islands, but as the name Is-Land
implies, and island is land. We should cover some of the cultural
products of the people who are truly landless over half the time:
seamen. Even the example of the Robinsonade doesn't focus on the vessel.
The ship is destroyed in the first pages of the book to set up the
island adventure. In the history covered by Zong, the ship is just how
the slaves are transported, and the drama is the reading of the court
case on land. In Omeros, Achille walks along the bottom of the sea
instead of sailing atop it. The main pieces that we talk about which
include the people on the ship are those pertaining to the Pacific
Islander navigators. This slide deck would be a good complement to the
Moana week.

The music made by the creativity of the working class sailors during the
job (hauling songs) and off duty (forebitters) reflect how they saw the
world. At worst, the songs may've had demeaning language and slurs, or
have painted a picture that the sailors believed of a colonial worldview
and a single story. Opposite of the damage of treating such cultures
individually, other songs have the highest reverence for the ports and
the foreign sailors they've met. The variations are as vast as the
oceans they traveled. Most commonly, the songs provide an insight into
the various pains the sailors endured. Abuse, cheating, hangovers,
poverty, debt, parting, nostalgia, hunger, loneliness, grief and death.

There is something to be said for the Genealogy of the Sea Shanty. The
songs do not come into existence without the intersection of Black
Slavery in the Caribbean/Americas and of merchant shipping. The music
itself learns its call and response unison chanting from the slaves. The
characters are also inherited from colonialism, many of the women that
the Jolly Tars meet like Molly Black and Sally Brown are sometimes
barkeeps, sometimes whores, sometimes "mulattos" (mixed race), sometimes
natives. Interestingly, Rock and Roll is directly descended from Sea
Shanties, and so named for the ship's rocking and rolling. The students
should be able to find some interesting connections to the rest of the
course content beyond what I've mentioned consciously, especially in the
SAQs.
